---
layout: post
title: moon song
subtitle:
tags: [prose, b]
comments: true
---

i used to pity dogs, who wait at the table for scraps, who dance with delight when we decide they eat, who sleep at the foot of your bed where they’ll bother us least. who come at your beck and call, hoping that you’d treat them to anything at all, sometimes even just so they remember they exist. 

i used to pity them until i became yours. now, all i can say i feel is envy, envy for them who belong to someone who can take care. but maybe envy doesn’t even cover it all, because envy doesn’t talk of this feeling of being so utterly worthless on my own. envy doesn’t keep me up at night, envy doesn’t lock me in cages, or keep me from ever loving again. 

over millennia we took canines, creatures of the wild with pack traits that allowed them to succeed together as one, and morphed them into something else. we used their ability to form social bonds to our advantage, aged them down to be more submissive, found ways to belittle them into exactly how we wanted them to be. something we can coo at, and hold hostage in our homes, and force to keep us company. 

imagine how it feels to them now, when after all these years of us telling them how to be, we pity them. it’s ironic right, that we only value something while we can change it, how strength and power and dominance are thought of as good traits, yet we live to fight them. 

so when you looked me in the eye and said you pity me, this is what i thought of. after years of being chained and trained, of following those i love like a puppy yipping at their heels, of comforting when they needed it, of holding in my instincts for others. i thought only of how to help you. because that’s what dogs do, they live only for their owner, until we bury them in our backyards. 

i wonder if i’ll even get a headstone, or whether in a few years my bones will just wash away...
